DriveNets Network Orchestrator (DNOR)  automates the deployment, scaling, and management of the DriveNets Network Cloud solution, removing the complexity of provisioning and managing a distributed multi-vendor disaggregated solution while eliminating the inefficiencies that came with operating a traditional chassis-based network.
KEY 	Automated Operations
FEATURES	Fully automated life-cycle management of DriveNets Network Cloud PODs (Point-Of-Delivery).
? Zero-touch provisioning of multi-vendor white box hardware and DriveNets software into a working routing solution
? Consistent single entity management for any deployment type (standalone or cluster) regardless of topology, size or location
? Hardware inventory management with details on each white box and its components
? Automated scale-up and scale-down with no downtime or service impact
? Modular software orchestration for firmware, BaseOS, NOS containers and hosted services with automatic scaling and failover, scheduled automated tasks, and real-time status

Multi-service Orchestration
Effortless deployment and management of hosted services - networking and third-party services - running over the shared virtualized Network Cloud infrastructure.
? Smooth introduction and deployment of hosted services running in separate containers
? Efficient allocation of Network Cloud infrastructure resources to support service level requirements  (any service, any time, anywhere, at any scale)
Health Assurance and Monitoring
Guaranteed availability and performance SLA with automated alarm and KPI monitoring.
? Granular cluster topology view of hardware and software components
? Automated fault, performance, and alarm management 
? Technical support for in-depth system diagnosis and debugging ? Open APIs for easy OSS/BSS integration


?[DNOR is the only] orchestrator in the industry that?s designed for  demanding network control plane, automation, and service assurance missions. 
 It?s a quantum leap forward in realizing the benefits of disaggregated routers.?
- Tom Nolle, President, CIMI Corporation -

DNOR 
BENEFITSSimple Operations 
Experience the operational simplicity of monolithic routers and benefit from the cost and scale of the disaggregated architecture.Short Maintenance Windows
Minimal service disruption through  separate upgrades of firmware, BaseOS,  and containerized software elements.High Network Availability, Performance, and Reliability
Proactive monitoring, fast troubleshooting  and debugging, and low MTTR.Faster Time-To-Revenue
Fast, flexible deployment and growth of networking and third-party services on the shared Network Cloud infrastructure.
