 
Build Networks Like 
Cloud
DriveNets is a fast-growing software company that has created a radical new way to build networks. It disaggregates 
the network infrastructure in the same way hyperscalers built their cloud.
While the world has moved to software and cloud-native architectures, most networks have remained hardware-centric, 
based on complex monolithic software. They are now taking advantage of newer software technologies that enable 
better resource utilization, service scaling and innovative economic models.
DriveNets Network Cloud is changing the game. The software- based cloud-native networking infrastructure solution 
supports the highest capacity and scale in the market today, with an innovative economic model.
?	Disrupting the networking market ? moving it 20 years forward to a software-based, disaggregated model, over 
white boxes
?	Customer-proven ? Nearly half of AT&T?s core network and many service providers are using DriveNets Network 
Cloud
?	New economic model ? offering network services in an Infrastructure-as-a Services (IaaS) model, running over a 
shared infrastructure of white box clusters
?	Optimal scaling ? uniquely scales from a single-box router 
(4-12 Tbps) to clusters of 100s of white boxes 
?	Tier-1 ecosystem ? supported by a set of leading hardware and application partners, including chip 
manufacturers, white box ODMs, optical equipment, and software app providers
Current HPC Interconnect Challenges
HPC systems or AI ?supercomputers? are more powerful computing platforms than today?s data centers. HPC can 
process huge amount of data and perform complex calculations at very high volumes using multiple computers via 
parallelization methods. HPC systems support large and complex workloads running over individual compute and 
storage nodes that are working together as a logical cluster and are connected via a high capacity interconnect fabric. 
The performance requirements of HPC have major interconnect challenges:
Inefficient performance at scale (Substantially impacts 
High cost/ low flexibility experience)
Vendor lock to custom interconnect (e.g. InfiniBand) and 	AI application performance can be impacted by 
network short refresh cycles (2-3 years) which are mandatory to 	convergence (ECMP based) and lack of e2e 
QOS, support growing scale (200G/400G and beyond)	especially at high-scale.
DriveNets Network Cloud ? best fit for HPC 
cluster interconnect
DriveNets Network Cloud HPC-Cluster interconnect solution presents a unique and innovative architecture that offers 
both the high performance and scale of a Fabric interconnect solution and the cost effectiveness of an open, 
disaggregated cloud model.
Network Cloud collapses the multiple-tier Clos architecture (ToR-Leaf-Spine-Superspine) to a flat, single switch 
architecture where inter-rack connectivity is based on a cell-based fabric, rather than Ethernet-based multi-hop 
interconnect.
Early tests at select hyperscalers demonstrated 30% higher performance and better resiliency of DriveNets distributed 
Network Cloud Cluster model as opposed to an Ethernet-based Clos.
?	Highest Scale  
?	Up to 9K / 18K GPU (400G/200G) in HPC cluster
?	Flexible GPU speeds (100G to 800G) ? Highest Performance 
?	30% higher performance in AI training communication 
?	Best Resiliency During Failover 
?	No performance impact on network convergence
?	Simplified architecture 
?	Single hop from any GPU to any GPU and scalable QoS (optimal packet-loss, latency, and jitter performance) 
with a DDC Cell-based architecture
 
